# IOR
Monitoring ventilatory parameters is fundamental in everybody’s daily life, as they represent important indicators of the health status of an individual. Suffice it to say that the respiratory rate is one of the vital parameters, which are medical signs that denote the status of the vital functions of the human body. Despite being fundamental, it is still often non recorded, omitted, inaccurately measured, or just estimated, because of a lack of automation. Other parameters, such as breath amplitude, or tidal volume, are also still difficult to obtain at times. A thorough, fast, non-invasive, and wearable device to monitor ventilatory parameters is thus vital. Some technologies are already available on the market; however, most of them either must be used in a controlled environment, requiring a cumbersome apparatus or a mouthpiece that could hinder physiological ventilation, or are affected by motion artifacts. Also, the majority of them limits its functionalities to monitoring only the respiratory rate. This thesis presents an innovative Bluetooth-enabled, oral wearable ventilatory monitoring system that is totally portable and discreet. It is suitable for continuous monitoring, even outside the clinical context, and can be easily used during various activities, without being affected by movement artifacts. The proposed device is not only able to monitor the respiratory rate, but it also allows the monitoring of other ventilatory parameters and properties, such as breath amplitude. These characteristics make it of particular interest in a time when respiration is at the center of everyone’s attention. In this initial study we were interested in identifying the functionalities and limitations of this entirely new monitoring device. A single subject was instructed to perform a specific testing protocol, including both oral, oronasal and nasal breathing, in static or dynamic conditions. The subject was wearing both the Intra-Oral Respirometer and the markers for the Optoelectronic plethysmography, used as the validation method. Our findings suggest that the Intra-Oral Respirometer is able, with some degree of inaccuracy, to monitor ventilatory parameters and detect changes in ventilation in most conditions, both in static and dynamic contexts.
